>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well, these are
just two examples of the creational design
patterns.
There are more, okay, but
these are just two simple examples.
Let's see now some structural
design patterns that,
in this case, are solutions for
composing classes and
objects to form larger structures while
keeping them flexible and efficient.
So they are focusing on simplifying
relationships between entities.
In terms of creation,
now we are talking about relationship
between entities in my code.
So, some examples of that, decorator.
Actually, the decorator button
is being used in React.
So if you are a React developer,
probably you have used this pattern.
There are many ways in which
React is using this pattern.
One is known as the Higher-Order
Component, I'm not sure if you're a React
developer and you have used a Higher-Order
Component, but that's kind of a degrade.
The problem that it's solving is,
we need to add additional functionality to
objects dynamically without modifying
the structure of the object.
Let's say I have a button, and
now I have a class that creates a button,
it renders the button on the screen,
and that's okay.
But now, I need that button to have a
different behavior or additional behavior.
I know, for example, if I right-click
on the button, I want a menu,
but I don't wanna touch my button.
My button is there, I know it's working,
I don't wanna touch it.
Because I'm using the button
in my page in lot of places,
I don't wanna rerun my test.
It's working, let's keep it that way.
Well, let's decorate the button, and
the decorator is actually
something that is wrapping.
We are going to wrap that object
with something else on top.
So we're going to take that button, and
we're going to decorate the button with
a right-click behavior that will show
a contextual menu, for example, okay?
So we wrap an object with another object.
And use cases, adding logging,
validation, caching to method calls.
So you have an API call object, so
you have an object, or a class, or
a function, that it's going to a network
and grabbing data from the API.
I don't wanna change that code, but
then I can wrap it with something else
that will log that in the log database.
So for debugging purposes,
if there is a problem later,
I can go to the log and see what happens.
Extending the user interface
component with additional features,
the pattern example, it's another one.
And how to implement in
JavaScript decorator,
there are many ways before that.
Another use case is wrapping
API responses to format or
process data before passing it on.
So you have, again, the API call,
and you are getting the data back.
Well, maybe from a security point of view,
you wanna check if there is no
cross-site scripting problems.
You wanna validate that the user
has authorization for that data or
something like that.
Well, you can decorate their response or
parse the response with a decorator.
From a JavaScript point of view,
there are many ways to implement this,
but one very simple, and
you will feel sometimes, even not so
clever solution,
is to just use inheritance.
So I have a button with a render method,
so I create another button
extending from the other one,
overriding render, calling super.
So we are still keeping the original
button behavior and adding our own code.
For example, the event handler for
the right-click,
that will render the menu,
so that's the decorator.
And I'm pretty sure that most of
you have already used this pattern,
even if you didn't know it had a name.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, the
decorator pattern is just adding behavior
without changing the original element,
the original components, the idea.